Description:
The project of “Anti Theft Home Security System” has been designed in order to tackle the increase in robbery
cases in houses and offices. This system with the help of Ardiuno , sensors, magnetic switch
(reed switch) transmitter and receiver can form elements to protect our houses from the astute minds of thieves. The user
will be carrying the receiving module, whenever he/she steps out of the house.  
This module will encompass receiver, microcontroller, LCD and a buzzer. The transmitting module will be
equipped with sensors, reed switch, microcontroller and transmitter. There is constant monitoring between the transmitter
and receiver and as soon as some moment is detected by the sensors or reed switch, immediately the buzzer will go ON and
the user will come to know about the activity through LCD.  
The user needs to cut off the battery whenever he/she accesses the doors and windows as it can trigger the buzzer,
which is not necessary at that moment. This system can also be successfully brought into implementation at places like
offices, shopping malls (for protection of products kept on display), ATM’s etc. 
The passive infrared sensors are placed near such things. As soon as there is some movement in its vicinity, the
sensor detects it and sends the signal to the user through transmitter. Also the reed switch is placed near windows and
doors. The moment the door or a window is opened, the contact of reed switch with it is broken and the user comes to
know about it. The buzzer goes on whenever there is a threat, which signifies that the user has to check the LCD which
displays the things under danger.  

List of Hardware: 
- Passive infra red module  
- Pressure sensor 
- Ardiuno 
- LCD    
- LED  
- BUZZER

Hardware Description:

1.Passive Infra Red Module : 
PIR sensors are small, inexpensive, low power, rugged, have a wide lens range, are easy to interface with, and are
easy to use. A passive infrared (PIR) sensor measures infrared light emitted from objects that generate heat, and therefore
infrared radiation, in its field of view. PIR sensors have a range of approximately 6 meters, depending on conditions. The
sensor adjusts to slowly changing conditions that occur normally within the environment, but shows a high-output response
when a sudden change takes place.  

2.Wireless Door/Window Contact Sensor :
The Wireless Magnetic Door / Window Contact Sensor is a protective device that can send notification when the
opening and closure of doors and windows occurs. It is designed to send a wireless signal to a compatible home security
system when the contact between the transmitter and corresponding magnetic sensor is broken. 

3.Buzzer : 
It produces sound whenever theifs try to enter the home and these sounds are commonly used to indicate tha a robbery is 
taking place by a click, a ring or a beep. 

4.Led :
Led's are used to indicate that a robbery is taking place by lighting them. 

5.Lcd :
MAin function of Lcd is to display all the activities taking place during the act of theft.
